# 7th-Grade-Research-Project
Abstract

Clustering is a relatively new idea to Literature Based Discovery (LBD) that focuses on grouping together similar terms. The purpose of this experiment is to determine which clustering algorithm will cluster the dataset imported from the CLUTO website the fastest. This is important because when dealing with over one million words, the time difference between each clustering algorithm can vary drastically. It is hypothesized that if the agglomerative method, which groups each piece of data with another similar piece of data and continues until the whole dataset is one cluster, for clustering is used, then it will run the fastest. There were 5 different clustering algorithms that were used in this experiment, repeated bisections (RB), RBR, agglomerative (agglo), graph, and direct. The experiment was run on the same computer, which had the same battery level throughout the experiment. The data that was imported from CLUTO, the most common software for clustering, was run through each clustering algorithm 10 times. The algorithm with the quickest mean time was agglomerative, thus proving the hypothesis correct. The mean times for each of the clustering algorithms are 0.004049 seconds for RB, 0.004043 seconds for RBR, 0.041708 for graph, 0.00021 seconds for agglo, and 0.00399 seconds for direct. The agglomerative clustering algorithm had the smallest mean time, which proves the hypothesis correct. For future study and research, the project could be improved by running a larger dataset and a smaller dataset with the clustering algorithms. This would help determine which clustering algorithm is the best applied to data sets where the size is unknown, as well as data sets where the size is known, as the best algorithm could be picked. The computer that ran the clustering algorithms was not the quickest nor powerful by any means, so changing the computer that the algorithms were run on could change the results.
